#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Statistical Analysis of Systems Publications
\end_layout

\begin_layout Abstract
What makes a publication "good"? What makes a conference "great"? These
 questions occur to virtually all publishing researchers, and yet are very
 difficult to tackle scientifically, for two reasons: First, we lack objective
 measures of quality, and have to resort instead to proxy metrics, such
 as citation count; and second, each paper and its publication circumstances
 are unique by design (repeated publication is actively discouraged).
 Consequently, controlled experiments on the publication process and on
 publication quality are all but impossible, leaving us only with observational
 studies.
 That is what this paper is about.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Abstract
For this paper, we collected and analyzed x,xxx publications from yy conferences
 in the field of computer systems.
 We extracted dozens of features for each paper, ...
\end_layout

\begin_layout Abstract
Our main findings are...
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Define the field of computer systems (aka 'systems').
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Systems work deals, in a nutshell, with building programs that use a lot
 of resources and profiling that resource usage.
 Systems work includes building operating systems, databases, and distributed
 computing, and can be closely related to networking.
 For instance, some might say that the structure of the internet falls in
 the category of systems work.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
The design, implementation, and profiling of databases is a major part of
 systems programming, with a focus on building tools that are fast enough
 to manage large amounts of data while still being stable enough not to
 lose it.
 Sometimes work in databases and operating systems intersects in the design
 of file systems to store data on disk for the operating system.
 For example, Microsoft has spent years working on a file system based on
 the relational database model.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Systems work is highly practical and focused on implementation and understanding
 what kinds of usage a system will be able to handle.
 As such, systems work can involve trade-offs that require tuning for the
 common usage scenarios rather than creating systems that are extremely
 efficient in every possible case.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Some recent work in systems has focused on solving the problems associated
 with large-scale computation (distributed computing) and making it easier
 to harness the power of many relatively slow computers to solve problems
 that are easy to parallelize.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 (from http://aihorizon.com/essays/basiccs/general/cs_areas.html)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
OR
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
The ACM and IEEE, in CC2005, say:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Computer engineering is concerned with the design and construction of computers
 and computer-based systems.
 It involves the study of hardware, software, communications, and the interactio
n among them.
 Its curriculum focuses on the theories, principles, and practices of traditiona
l electrical engineering and mathematics and applies them to the problems
 of designing computers and computer-based devices.
 Computer engineering students study the design of digital hardware systems
 including communications systems, computers, and devices that contain computers.
 They study software development, focusing on software for digital devices
 and their interfaces with users and other devices.
 CE study may emphasize hardware more than software or there may be a balanced
 emphasis.
 CE has a strong engineering flavor.
 Currently, a dominant area within computing engineering is embedded systems,
 the development of devices that have software and hardware embedded in
 them.
 For example, devices such as cell phones, digital audio players, digital
 video recorders, alarm systems, x-ray machines, and laser surgical tools
 all require integration of hardware and embedded software and all are the
 result of computer engineering.
 [CC2005, p.
 13] https://www.computer.org/web/peb/curricula
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
See also: https://www.cs.cornell.edu/research/systems
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Why conferences: faster and better in systems (citation needed), 
\begin_inset CommandInset href
LatexCommand href
name "criticism of journals"
target "https://cra.org/cra-statement-us-news-world-report-rankings-computer-science-universities/"

\end_inset


\begin_inset CommandInset href
LatexCommand href
name "vardi"
target "https://cacm.acm.org/magazines/2009/5/24632-conferences-vs-journals-in-computing-research/fulltext"

\end_inset


\begin_inset CommandInset href
LatexCommand href
name "paper"
target "http://marksanderson.org/publications/my_papers/JASIST2015c.pdf"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The importance and problem of academic incentives: http://online.liebertpub.com/do
i/full/10.1089/ees.2016.0223.
 Inflates references; incremental publications; positive results bias? Also
 bad to measure citation counts.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Show 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

buzzword cloud
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 of keywords extracted from papers to show what's trending.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Cluster conferences based on topics and based on citation links
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As of the time of this writing, the research interests of the systems community,
 as expressed in citation counts, appear to reflect the following topics,
 in descending priority order.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There is a need to gather evidence on the effectiveness of peer review:
 
\begin_inset Flex URL
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

http://persistentastonishment.blogspot.co.uk/2015/08/reviewing-peer-review-and-its-
flaws.html
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
IRB approval required?
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Methodology
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
data sources
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Conference info: dates, awards, papers, authors: manually from the Web (attach
 URL list).
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Conference choice not meant to be comprehensive or representative of any
 metric! Some conferences didn't run in 2017, some choices may have been
 preferred over others.
 But it's a wide selection encompassing a range of sizes, quality, topics,
 countries, and organizations.
 All conferences are peer-reviewed, however, and non-reviewed papers weren't
 considered (posters, WiP, etc.) Focus on full-length, peer-reviewed (not
 invited), research-track papers.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
One major difference between conferences and journals is that conference
 authors typically don't get to iterate over a paper before publication
 in the same venue: there's a single acceptance cycle, with little opportunity
 for significant revisions in between (exceptions noted for the two-cycle
 conferences).
 Revisions have to wait for another year or another conference, sometimes
 2nd choice in terms of quality or fit.
 [put in discussion]
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Systems papers represent their own category of scientific research and communica
tion.
 A typical systems paper describes a computer systems (software or hardware)
 that was implemented or simulated, and then evaluated experimentally to
 demonstrate some improvement in performance, efficiency, cost, or energy
 consumption.
 It is dissimilar to other scientific disciplines in that there is a lower
 emphasis on theoretical results, observationsational studies, or replicating
 past results.
 This experimentl and engineering bias may not be intentional, but it is
 strongly reflected in published numbers.
 For example, of the XXXX papers analyzed here, only YYY presented theoretical
 results, HHH measured existing or natural systems, and ZZZ replicated past
 results.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Author and PC statistics: 
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

All author statistics (as well as PC members) were obtained by querying
 Google scholar.
 Not all of these people maintain a Scholar profile, in which case we leave
 their record empty.
 In many cases, we had to resolve duplicate profiles under the same name.
 Where possible, we used the email address or affiliation on the paper to
 match the correct profile on Scholar.
 (Although again, not all profiles have this information; for the rest,
 we left the record empty.) Additionally, some names appear in several variations
, even in the same proceedings (some real examples were: Andy Pavlo / Andrew
 Pavlo; Will Robertson / William Robertson; Jingesh M.
 Patel/Jingesh Patel).
 We did a best-effort attempt to identify and deduplicate these names.
 Our code flagged hundreds of amibiguous names (same name with different
 affiliations or names with short edit distance in th same affiliation)
 and we manually disambiguated all of them.
 We estimate that there remain fewer than 0.5% ambiguation errors in the
 author data.
 For the entire year, we ended up with X,XXX unique persons, of which Y,YYY
 (%) had identifiable Google Scholar records.
 Anecdotally, it appears that a significant proportion of the authors without
 a Scholar profile are students, biasing The overall percentage toward more
 established authors (with higher citation counts).
 The reason for this bias might be that some student and early-career authors
 may feel they don't have enough publications to warrant establishing this
 profile, or are simply unaware of the option yet.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Acceptance ratios: private communication
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Observed Statistics
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Histograms: no.
 of coauthors; no.
 of PC members.
 No of papers per conf; no of papers per author this year; reviews per paper
 by conf.
 (mean/median/min/max?)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Correlation from everything to citations
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
<cite: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/asi.22747/abstract for a comparati
ve study of 42 CS conferences>
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Modeled Statistics
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Conclusion and Recommendations
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Conference organizers
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Create special 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

reproduction track
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

, similar to industry track, which emphasizes attempts to reproduce other's
 results, and de-emphasizes new or positive results.<cite to previous recommendat
ions>
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Authors
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Gender
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Using a gender-inference model based on given names can only be trusted
 so far.
 First, all such models have limited accuracy (the creators of the model
 we used estimate XX%, and based on our own author polls, we estimate an
 accuracy of YY% +/- Z% for our population sample).
 Second, even a correct inference of gender does not necessarily take into
 account how an author's gender is perceived by the reviewer or even the
 author themselves.
 We must therefore treat with sharp skepticism any attempt to generalize
 based from our results, and this paper will only present quantitative numbers,
 not conclusions.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
On average, women are underrepresented as TPCs (TT%), keynote speakers (KK%),
 session chairs (SS%), and panelists (PP%), compared to their proportion
 as authors (AA%), and especially under double-blind reviews (DB%).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Blind reviews
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Most PC chairs who expressed an opinion about double-blind reviews thought
 it was a good idea.
 (The only reservation came from chairs who thought it impractical in their
 narrow area.) In the past, it has been shown to improve author diversity
 <cite> and overall paper quality <cite>.
 And yet most conferences (XX%) in this study only employed single-blind
 reviews.
 Could systems conferences benefit from more widespread double-blind reviews?
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Our data suggests that the answer to this question is positive/negative/inconclu
 sive.
 For double-blind conferences, mean author diversity was measured using
 <...> at XX, compared to YY for the other conferences.
 Quality was...
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Rebuttal
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Summary
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This section summarizes the more interesting findings of this analysis.
 At the risk of redundancy, it must be stressed that all the relationships
 discussed here are correlational.
 No causal relationships are implied or evaluated, because of the observational
 nature of this study.
 We strongly advise against drawing superficial or actionable conclusions
 from this study to try to improve a paper's impact.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Acknowledgements
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
All the PC chairs who kindly and patiently provided detailed information
 about their review process: Jonathan Aldrich, Marcos Aguilera, Lorenzo
 Alvisi, Magdalena Balazinska, Anne Benoit, John B.
 Carter, Augustin Chaintreau, Sunita Chandrasekaran, Carlo Curino, Peter
 J.
 Desnoyers, José Carlos Cabaleiro Domínguez, Tina Eliassi-Rad, Ulfar Erlingsson,
 David Evans, Geoffrey Fox, Floris Geerts, Ryan Grant, Ben Greenstein, Tim
 Harris, Michael A.
 Heroux, Adriana Iamnitchi, Emmanuel Jeannot, Daniel A.
 Jimenez, Ari Juels, Daniel S.
 Katz, Bettina Kemme, David Keyes, Geoff Kuenning, Julian Kunkel, Eyal de
 Lara, Marco Mellia, Bryan Parno, Lawrence Rauchwerger, Bernhard Rumpe,
 Tetsuya Sakai, Alexander A.
 Schwarzmann, Evgenia Smirni, Marc Snir, Dan Suciu, Bronis R.
 de Supinski, Mohammad Taghi, Martin Vechev, Arjen P.
 de Vries, Andrew Warfield, Xindong Wu.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Andrew Bray for sound statistical advice.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Heather Kitada for help in author survey design.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Revant Baggaria for prototyping the textual analysis of the papers.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
